Endermen are black, neutral mobs from the End that have the ability to teleport.
Endermen spawn on solid blocks at light level 7 or less. They spawn commonly in the End in groups of 4; however in the Overworld they spawn in packs of 1-4 and are rarer than most other mobs.
Endermen may drop 0-1 ender pearls (or up to 4 with the Looting enchantment), and 5 experience orbs when killed by a player or a tamed wolf.
Endermen do not attack unless provoked by a player attacking them or looking at their bodies or upper legs from up to 64 blocks away. When provoked, endermen will open their mouths and shake with rage; when provoked by being stared at, they will also make a lengthy, loud, threatening sound and will run towards the player to attack. If an aggravated enderman is hit by another mob, it will cease attacking the player.
They can also step up one full block without having to jump.
Endermen are damaged by water and rain and will teleport away when they take damage from either of these.
Endermen will continue chasing a player until they are either killed, sustain several hits, or become distracted by exterior elements like rain, fire, or sun; they are likely to teleport away to underground locations, such as caves and mineshafts, at day break.
Endermen cannot be provoked by players looking through transparent blocks, within a boat, minecart, or wearing a pumpkin on their head. However, they may become aggravated with a player in a minecart from some angles.
Endermen always attempt to teleport upon taking damage, such as from water. Most ordinary melee attacks are successful, but are followed by an immediate teleport (unless the player looks at the enderman's feet, and even occasionally then), usually to a few blocks behind the attacking player. Endermen cannot be attacked with projectiles in the PC version (including splash potions of harming), as they will always teleport away just before being hit. However, in the Console Editions, it is possible to hit an enderman with a projectile by arcing a shot onto the enderman without placing the crosshairs on them directly. When teleporting due to damage, an enderman will make up to 64 attempts to teleport to a random block within 32 blocks along each axis.
When teleporting, endermen seek downwards (regardless of distance) from their chosen destination until the block below is made of a movement-blocking material. They will then teleport to that location as long as no liquid or solid blocks prevent them from standing there. Thus they typically need at least three non-solid blocks above the destination to successfully teleport.
An enderman cannot teleport when it is in a minecart, though in rain and water it will attempt to do so, always teleporting back into the minecart repeatedly until death.
Endermen will not teleport in the daytime while on soul sand unless they are damaged. They will also not teleport if attacked on their legs or by wolves, as wolves attack at the legs.
Endermen have a unique ability to pick up certain block types and move them around. They will pick up blocks in a 4×4×3 region horizontally centered on the enderman and vertically at the same level as the enderman itself. They can pick up a block even if it is surrounded by other blocks. Endermen will not drop the block they are holding when enraged or killed.
Endermen can only pick up the following blocks.
Allium.
Azure Bluet.
Blue Orchid.
Dandelion.
Orange Tulip.
Red Tulip.
Pink Tulip.
White Tulip.
Oxeye Daisy.
Poppy.
Cactus.
Clay.
Coarse Dirt.
Dirt.
Grass Block.
Gravel.
Melon.
Pumpkin.
Mycelium.
Podzol.
Red Mushroom.
Brown Mushroom.
Red Sand.
Sand.
TNT.
When carrying a block, the enderman may randomly place it, in a 2×2×2 region horizontally centered on the enderman and vertically at the same level as the enderman itself, if the target location is air with a non-air block beneath and the block is allowed to be placed at the target location.
While endermen may breach walls, bridge fences, break redstone circuitry, and even construct golems by removing or placing blocks, such actions are entirely random and not purposeful.
One can summon an enderman holding any block using the {carried:Block ID} NBT tag.
Notch claimed in public that the enderman is a “subtle” reference to “the Slenderman”, a similar looking monster with a similar name. Given the later development of the End, it is possible he already had the name in mind, and did not choose it because of the Reddit thread in which their name was revealed. In the Halloween texture pack for the Xbox 360 Edition, the enderman is re-skinned to look like the Slenderman.
Enderman sounds seem to be reverse audios The "idle1" sound is a reversed “here”.
Enderman sounds seem to be reverse audios The "idle2" sound is a reversed “hiya”.
Enderman sounds seem to be reverse audios The "idle3" sound is a down-pitched “what’s up?” or “this way!”.
Enderman sounds seem to be reverse audios The "idle4" sound is a down-pitched reversed “forever!”.
Enderman sounds seem to be reverse audios The "idle5" sound is a reversed “uh oh!”.
If a monster spawner is tweaked to spawn endermen, the model inside will have its head jutting out the top of the frame. In Pocket Edition, however, the model is shrunk to fit within the block.
The purple color of the particles that endermen emit are hard-coded into the game, so they cannot be re-colored without mods.
If you throw a splash potion of invisibility at an enderman, the enderman will be invisible, but you can still see its eyes. This is because the eyes, like those of spiders, are in a separate texture file. In the End, an invisible enderman at a distance will become visible as a pale purple figure.
If you go to sleep in a bed, it is possible for an enderman to teleport on it and knock you off. You will still continue to go to sleep as if you were in a bed.
Switching to spectator mode and taking an enderman’s camera adds the invert shader, suggesting that they see the End as an island of blue cobblestone (because end stone is a yellowish inversion of cobblestone) in a white sky, with white pillars, white endermen with green eyes and a white ender dragon.
The collective noun for a group of endermen is “a haunting of Endermen”, as stated by Dinnerbone.
Endermen can either teleport on top of or inside of most blocks. Exceptions are carpet that is not above a block made of a movement-blocking material and snow layers stacked 10 deep or more, as their materials are not flagged as blocking movement even though the blocks themselves do so.
When directly attacked (one hit only) by the player, enderman have a chance not to open their mouths.
An enderman striking in Beta 1.8.
The glowing eyes of an enderman in Beta 1.8. Note that the eye color was green instead of white.
An official image of endermen. (Auto-leveled for clarity).
Notch’s release of the endermen texture file, as of September 3rd.
The enderman attacking the camera in the Beta 1.8 official trailer.
An enderman’s height compared to the player’s height.
An enderman holding TNT. Note that the block of TNT is inverted.
A haunting of endermen in a desert biome.
Three endermen in a village.
A haunting of endermen attacking a player.
Front view of an enderman.
Endermen in the End.
An enderman holding a dandelion. Note that it is reduced to half its normal size.
A bug where when an enderman looks up at you, it has white eyes.
Endermen under the effects of an invisibility splash potion.
Through the eyes of the enderman. Note that the “invert” shader is being used.
