Dec value: Source: 9; Flowing: 8.
Hex value: Source: 9; Flowing: 8.
Minimum tool requirement to break: None.
Blast resistance: 500.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: Yes.
Water makes up a large part of the map in the Overworld and can be found in every biome on almost all altitudes. In addition to lakes, rivers, oceans and other natural landmarks, water can also be found in desert wells and village wells. Water cannot be found in the Nether or the End. Placing it in the end will simply evaporate it.
Water is, of course, a fluid block, which means it will spread out untill it’s thin enough. Water will always start to flow from a water source block, plugging this block will stop the flow of all the water and any flowing water will disapear. Water will turn to ice in snow biomes, but only when it’s exposed to the sky. Any block above it, no matter the height, will prevent the water from freezing over. Heat sources, like torches and active furnaces, will also prevent water from freezing.
Water will always flow towards the closest lower block, if none are available, water will simply spread in all directions. Water will always flow up to 8 blocks away from its source, but water cannot be placed in the Nether. It will simply evaporate before it touches any block.
Water is vital for farming, as it hydrates farmland, preventing it from reverting to dirt. Crops on hydrated farmland will grow faster.
Water can also be used to clear an area from all the partial blocks around, like torches, grass and flowers. Flowing water will pop all of these out of the ground, which will then take them with the flow.
Water will stop falling players, which can be used to create fast shortcuts from high to low places. Even a single block of water, floating above a normal block by using a sign under it to prevent it from flowing down, will prevent a player from taking fall damage, no matter the height of the jump. Players can also climb flowing water, by holding spacebar, which is a slow but effective way to climb to higher places. Some players use this to create (togglable) water elevators.
If you’re standing underwater, harvesting blocks will become significantly slower, often taking longer than a player can breathe. It’s often best to either harvest the blocks while standing only waist deep in water, or to simply drain the water by creating a dam. Players and most mobs will drown in water, this can be used in various traps and monster farms, some of which we’ve covered in our guides, here.
When water flows over a lava source, the lava will be turned into obsidian, if it flows over flowing lava, the lava will be turned into cobblestone. Stone can also be created, which happens when lava flows over water, both source blocks as flowing water.
Water will contain the damage of explosions, making it a very effective blast shield. Note that only blocks under water will be protected, if the explosion happens only partially in the water, damage can still be done to surrouding structures. Water will also extinguish any fire and lava, this is both useful when venturing down in the Overworld, as well as preventing other players from setting you on fire through flint and steel or buckets of lava.
By placing 2 water sources 1 block apart in a contained area, the middle block will turn into a new water source block, allowing for the creation of an infinite amount of water sources.
Water allows for transportation by boat, which is faster than walking. Using clever systems of canals can greatly decrease travel time between far places. All dropped items and most mobs will be carried by the flow of water, this makes it extremely useful when building monster farms and other automated gathering processes.
Flowing water is a seperate block, which, like normal water blocks, can only be obtained through mods and codes. Although different, they act the same when placed by a player.
