Aron Nieminen is a Mojang employee who was in charge of Minecraft - Pocket Edition's development from its conception until 13 December 2012, when Jens Bergensten took over development. Aron still works with Johan Bernhardsson and Tommaso Checchi on the game, but he also works with the development of Scrolls. Together with Daniel Frisk, he has developed Pi Edition.
Aron has been known to be quite silent, especially when it comes to the internet. He currently does not maintain a Twitter account. Notch describes him as "Very bright".
Aron started work on the Pocket Edition during late Beta, and worked primarily alone (partially with Daniel Kaplan and Junkboy) until 0.3.2/0.3.3 Alpha where Johan Bernhardsson stepped in. Then, since 0.7.3 Tommaso Checchi also stepped in.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Prerelease.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.1.0.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.1.1.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.1.2.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.1.3.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.2.0.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.2.1.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.3.0.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.3.2.
Aron produced the following versions, alone, of the Pocket Edition Alpha 0.3.3.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.4.0.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.4.0 rev 2.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.5.0.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.6.0.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.6.1.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.7.0.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.7.1.
Since here is also developed by Johan Bernhardsson Alpha 0.7.2.
After these, the game is also developed by Tommaso Checchi.
Nieminen's official Mojang avatar.
