Mojang AB (full Swedish name: Mojäng Aktiebolag—Swedish for "Gadget Ltd."), pronounced "mo-yang" (IPA: /mʊˈjɛŋ/) in Swedish and "mo-jang" (IPA: /moʊˈdʒæŋ/) in American English, also known as Mojang, and originally Mojang Specifications, is a previously independent video game developer, primarily known for the creation and development of Minecraft. It was founded by Markus Persson, Jakob Porsér, and Carl Manneh. Located in Stockholm, Sweden, Mojang currently has 54 employees. Mojang publicly announced on September 15 that they would be bought by Microsoft, and became part of Microsoft Studios on November 6, 2014.
Scrolls is another Mojang game which was first conceived and developed by Jakob Porsér. Its lead designer is now Måns Olson and its production manager is Henrik Pettersson. Announced on March 2, 2011, it aims to combine elements from trading card games and traditional board game in the strategy genre. The game was first made available to a limited number of people through alpha keys giveaways, starting from July 5, 2012. It then hit beta on June 3, 2013 since when it is purchasable at a discounted price. The game was fully released on December 12, 2014, but on June 29th, 2015, Mojang announced that development of Scrolls would cease as "the game has reached a point where it can no longer sustain continuous development"; the servers are expected to run until at least July of 2016, and all further proceeds will make sure the game is played for as long as possible.
In August 2011, Mojang was threatened with legal action by the legal team representing ZeniMax Media, with the accusation being that the title "Scrolls" infringes on the The Elder Scrolls trademark, a series of role-playing video games published by Bethesda Softworks (a ZeniMax Media subsidiary). In mid-October 2011, the court case was won by Mojang, and one employee described the outcome as "the court saw it from our side". No further action was taken against Mojang, and the name, "Scrolls" remained.
Cobalt is a game developed by Oxeye Game Studio and published/co-developed by Mojang. Cobalt is an action game of "running, jumping, rolling, shooting, throwing, dancing, hacking, rolling, flying, sliding, climbing, looting, deflecting, racing, piñata-ing, passing, scoring… and even more rolling!" Cobalt is written in Lua and a dated alpha version is avaible on Windows and Mac however, a release version will be released through a launcher and on Steam for Windows and Mac. Cobalt will also be exclusively available on Xbox 360 and Xbox One for consoles which is being ported/developed by Fatshark and Pixeldiet and published by Microsoft Studios. All versions of the game will be officially released in February 2016. The game also features music by Mattias 'anosou' Häggström Gerdt.
Cobalt Theme Song.
Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player.
You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser.
Following the end to his involvement with Minecraft, Notch began pre-production of an alternate reality space game set in the distant future on March 2012. On April Fools' Day, Mojang launched a satirical website for Mars Effect, citing the lawsuit with Bethesda as an inspiration. However, the gameplay elements remained true and on April 4, Mojang revealed 0x10 as a space sandbox title. It was eventually archived by Notch, as he didn't have the inspiration any more.
Mojang's current logo.
Mojang's old logo.
Mojang's support logo.
Mojang Status logo.
Mojira (Mojang bug tracker) logo.
Mojang's logo supporting same-sex marriage.
The Mojang logo used on the support page.
The Mojang footer logo.
The old Mojang footer logo.
The footer logo used on the Minecraft Realms website.
The first Mojang Specifications logo.
The Old Mojang logo splash image For Minecraft.
Mojang logo splash image used in Minecraft from Beta 1.3 to Beta 1.8.
Splash image used in Minecraft from Beta 1.8 to 13w47a.
Current Mojang logo splash image for Minecraft.
The Mojang logo that was featured in 0x10.
The Mojang logo used on their YouTube channel TeamMojang.
The M Team, working hard to make games.
Mojang's employees, in their Mojang suits.
An average day at the office.
Another average day at the office.
The Mojang Cape.
The average Minecraft developer.
JahKob in real life.
Jeb in real life.
Junkboy in real life.
Working hard in Mojang.
Mojang, doing their work.
Mojang's trophy wall.
First shirts ever sold by Mojang, featuring the classic Mojang Specifications logo.
Mojang prepares for their move to a larger facility.
Mojang building directory board with a note from some griefers.
Mojang Pax display.
Oil paintings of most of the Mojang employees.
Mojang's preparations for Mojam.
The Mojang support team hanging out in the ball pit.
Official site.
