 Dirt is a block found abundantly in the Overworld.
 Coarse Dirt is a variation of dirt that will not grow grass.
Dirt will drop as an item when broken with any tool or by hand, but a shovel is the fastest way to break it.
Dirt is found at any altitude, and comprises the majority of the upper terrain layers in most overworld biomes.
There are approximately 1,850 dirt per chunk in Plains, Forest, Tundra, Jungle, and Extreme Hills biomes. There can be as many as 3,000 in chunks with high mountains. Dirt generates in pockets underground as well. Dirt also generates naturally in the butcher's shop and in some houses in villages.
Coarse dirt can be found in mega taiga, mesa and savanna biomes.
When grass, mycelium, or podzol are broken using a tool that is not enchanted with silk touch, it will drop dirt.
Farmland will drop dirt when broken. It will also turn into dirt if either a mob jumps on it, or if nothing is planted on it and it is not within four blocks of water.
Coarse dirt can be tilled to become dirt.
In Pocket Edition, grass path blocks drop dirt when broken.
Dirt's primary use is for farming, but it can also be used as a highly available building block.
Dirt and coarse dirt have the ability to grow saplings, sugar canes, and mushrooms, which can be planted directly in dirt under appropriate conditions.
Using a hoe on dirt will turn it into farmland, enabling wheat seeds, pumpkin seeds, melon seeds, potatoes, and carrots to be planted on it. If you use a hoe on coarse dirt, it will turn into dirt instead.
When a dirt block is adjacent to a grass block and is exposed to a light level of at least 4, it will eventually be converted into a grass block at random intervals.
Mycelium spreads in similar fashion, but requires a light level of at least 9.
Neither mycelium nor grass will spread onto coarse dirt.
Dirt has only one possible tile name: minecraft:dirt, which it shares with Podzol and Coarse Dirt. The tile data field defines which block is displayed.
Grassless dirt found in a savanna biome.
