Ice is a partially transparent Block that forms over Water in colder Biomes and is somewhat slippery. It can commonly be used as an indicator of a Tundra, Taiga and Ice Spikes Biome. The player can break Ice even without a Tool, but will do so fastest with a Pickaxe.
Ice acts very similar to Snow in the sense that it melts when it comes into contact with Fire, is near a Torch, or is touched by Lava for a short period of time. Ice is not affected by Fire, but when melted with Lava, it will produce Water. This will also happen if Ice is destroyed and there is a Block beneath it.
Ice does not commonly have a use, and was most likely implemented in Minecraft for show and visual effect. Ice cannot naturally be gathered; however, if a Pickaxe has the Silk Touch Enchantment, Ice can successfully be gathered without destroying it.
Ice can be used to make traps, but is not efficient in this as water makes a better substitute in moving mobs. Melted Ice will disappear in the Nether.
In Mob traps, Ice is great for making faster Mob delivery systems. Water traveling over Ice propels items and Mobs faster, decreasing the amount of time the Player must wait.
Items flowing in Water over Ice will go much faster.
When Ice is broken, it makes the same breaking sound as Glass.
Blocks of Water in Arctic Biomes will occasionally freeze, forming blocks of Ice.
If placed under Soul Sand, the player will move slower on the Soul Sand than if the Ice Block was not there.
If Ice is placed directly next to Lava or Water, the liquid will be invisible.
Players can sprint extremely fast on ice.
By sprinting and jumping while on Ice and inside a 2-block tall tunnel, it is possible to move 16 blocks a second, twice as fast as a full-speed minecart. By replacing the 2-block ceiling with trapdoors, it's possible to travel 1000 blocks in 54 seconds, or 18.518 blocks per second. However, this will drain the player's hunger bar extremely quickly at roughly 1 unit per second.
Ice can be melted by any block or item that omits a high light level.
Ice in the Pocket Edition does not have the same transparency as in the PC version.
See here.
