Dec value: 358.
Hex value: 166.
Maximum stack 1.
Maps are a great way to map out an area and its most prominent features. They are created using 8 pieces of paper and a compass. .
The position where you create the map is important, as it will be the center of that map. So creating multiple maps at once will simply result in several maps with the same center. Maps spawned in through mods will always be Map_0, so you’ll have to create other maps yourself if you want to explore more areas.
By equiping the map, the area you created the map at will show up, along with a white arrow indicating your position. As you walk, the arrow will move and map out your surroundings on the map. A single pixel on the map equals an 8×8 area in the world. So only the most prominent features will be shown.
Maps are 128×128 pixels, so you can map out an area of 1024×1024 blocks on a single map. Going passed this area will stop showing your position arrow. If you want to map out the area beyond that 1024×1024 area, you’ll have to create a new map in that new area. Note that creating a map right after leaving the area of the old map will simply result in 2 maps that overlap each other.
A map has to be hold in order for it to map the world, but by pointing your mouse too far down the map will obstruct your view. This sometimes confuses new players, as they think it’s impossible to look up from your map.
Only the most used blocks in the 8×8 area will be shown as a pixel on the map. So an 8×8 area in the desert with 3 cacti will show up as a sand coloured pixel on your map.
A map will only map out the world as it is, which means any changes made to the land will only show up if you remap your map by visiting that land again.
Maps can also be created and used in the End and the Nether. Although it’s less useful in the End, as it’s just an island. Maps in the Nether are extemely useful as many players often get lost in the large But make sure you create landmarks out of stone as they’ll be easy to spot on a map that is otherwise mostly red and orange.
Maps created in one dimension cannot be used in the other. If you take a Nether map to the overworld you’ll still be able to view the explored area, but your position marker does not show up.
Maps can be used on multiplayer servers and can even be exchanged with other players. This is a very useful way to exchange the locations of secret bases and other areas, as creating a map while marking your base in the minecraft world will cause those markings to be mapped out, but removing those markings after they’re mapped out will not remove them from the map until the player with the map visits that area.
Nether and End maps can also be given to other players, who can then travel to the End or Nether and find your secret place. Note that other players will be able to see you on their maps when you’re using or creating a map, so they can find out where your base is without you knowing. But you can also use this trick to find other players.
Colour Blocks it could represent: Beds, Block of diamond, Block of gold, Block of iron, Block of lapis lazuli, Brewing stands, Clay, Couldrons, Gravel, Iron doors, Iron bars, Silverfish blocks, Soulsand, Sponge, All stone blocks; including ores, nether brick, obsidian, enchantment tables and other blocks made out of stone. Ice Water Grass, Mycelium All nature-type blocks, like saplings, leaves, mushroom blocks, lily pads and flowers. Gravel, Sand, Soul sand Dirt, Farmland All wooden blocks, including chests, fences, signs, wooden doors and all other blocks made with wood. Snow, Snow blocks.
Note that transparent blocks, like glass, rails and even portal blocks and fire will show the colour of the block below them.
