 Larger versions of trees can look quite amazing and could add great elements to any building project. They also allow us to add a lot more details and recreate more specific tree species. However, their size can also be a disadvantage, as they could easily overshadow smaller buildings next to it.
In this guide I will only go through the steps I take to create a larger and huge tree, if you’re looking for ways to recreate a specific tree type, please refer to the guide on smaller trees and apply those same tactics on a larger scale, which is pretty much all there is to building larger trees.
As with smaller trees, I first start out with creating the trunk. However, due to the size of the tree, the trunk may need to vary in width, depending on the type of tree. Oaks will usually have thicker trunks, especially at the bottom, while pine trees will always be quite thin.
But no matter the type of tree, I tend to always start with a 2×2 thick trunk and make it any height I want. This acts as a great base from which we can work. I then start to add more layers (if required), while slowly increasing the thickness as I reach the bottom. I then check the overall structure and either add or take blocks away to make it all look better (and satisfy my OCD), after which I’ll proceed to the roots of the tree.
Almost all large trees will look better with roots, the only exceptions are trees which barely have any visible roots in real life, like pine trees. I start creatings roots by first laying out the overall shape and length of 1 root, in a long, curved shapes. I then make the trunks thicker near the tree and I might replace some of the ground blocks with wood blocks, to mimic roots going underground.
After the first root is done, I repeat the same process as many times as needed to cover the whole of the base of the tree.
I always create the roots before I create the branch structures, as the roots can sometimes make the tree look shorter, which can easily be fixed by adding a few blocks on top. But if you create the branches first, increasing the height of the tree will become significantly more difficult.
I often create only 4 branches, one on each corner of the 2×2 top. Adding more will often make it look messy and it’s difficult to keep logs separated, without making the branches look weird. I create the branches by pretty much stacking 2×2 squares of logs on the each others corners and sides. Some parts will be longer than 2×2 and other parts might be shorter, whatever makes the branches look realistic. I finish the branch by adding a (curved) line of logs, which is meant to mimic thin ends of real branches.
I repeat this 4 times, after which I’m pretty much done with the overall structure. I might change a few blocks if they’re annoying me too much, but as long as the tree looks somewhat like a real tree, I’ll be satisfied enough.
Leaves are placed in the same way as I place them on small versions. I begin by covering all the branches with a single layer of leaves, which then get a second layer on top of it. This will make the tree look quite good, though it’s rarely enough to make a good enough tree.
After the 2 layers, I begin to connect the branches in a circular shape, but not in a perfect circle of course, no real life tree grows its foliage in a perfect circle.
I also cover the bottom of the branches, where they meet the trunk, with more leaves to make everything look more rounded. After that I add many more leaves on top, in whichever shape I need, which usually depends on what type of tree I’m making or whether I’m going to put a statue on top of the tree.
I’m usually done after I’ve placed all the leaves, but some trees look better with more details. Trunks and roots can look a lot better if you add some vines, though this largely depends on the type of tree you made.
I sometimes also add some logs on top of the leaves, to mimic branches sticking out from the foliage.
As I mentioned I sometimes add statues on top of trees, which can look amazingly epic when viewed from below. But huge trees are also perfect as platforms for housing, which is perfect for wood elf style and other forest dwelling creature style builds.
If you made a huge tree, building a huge mushroom on the trunk or roots could add a fun detail, especially if you’re creating a more magical style tree.
