A command block is a block that can execute commands. Because it cannot be obtained in survival mode without cheats, it is primarily used on multiplayer servers and in custom maps.
Command blocks can be obtained by using the pick block control or with various commands, such as /give <player> minecraft:command_block <amount>.
Command blocks are not available in the creative inventory, cannot be broken in survival mode, are not flammable, and have the same blast resistance as bedrock. Command blocks cannot be moved by a piston.
A command block can execute commands when activated by redstone power. It always has all permissions, so it can be used to allow a specific use of a command by players who can't use that command in general (for example, allowing anyone to obtain a specific item with /give, without allowing everyone to /give themselves whatever they want).
To enter or modify the command in a command block, use the Use Item control on the command block to open the command block GUI (graphical user interface). The GUI will only open if the player is in creative mode, and has the proper permissions. In singleplayer, cheats must be enabled to edit command blocks. In multiplayer, command blocks can only be edited successfully by operators in creative mode, and for command blocks to work at all the following values must be set in the server.properties file enable-command-block must be set to true.
properties file op-permission-level must be set to 2 or above (default is 4).
Commands can be entered in the top text pane. The text limit for commands in a command block is 32,767 characters, but the text pane can only show a small portion of this amount at a time.
Commands in a command block do not need to be prefixed with the forward slash (/) as they do in the chat window, but using it will still work.
Below the console command text pane are some reminder tips about how to use target selectors.
The bottom text pane doesn't appear until the command block has been activated at least once. Its text is not editable and shows the output message of the last executed command (success or failure). The command block GUI allows the player to choose whether the last output should be stored and displayed in the Previous Output text pane. A button to the right of the Previous Output text pane shows O when the output should be stored and X when the output should not be stored. For worlds with many command blocks, especially command blocks running on fast clocks, not storing the output text can reduce memory and storage requirements.
Click the "Done" button or ↵ Enter to save the command and leave the command block GUI.
Click the "Cancel" button or Esc to leave the command block GUI without saving any changes.
Command blocks are redstone mechanisms and can be activated by An adjacent active power component: for example, a redstone torch (except that a redstone torch will not activate a command block it is attached to), a block of redstone, a daylight sensor, a button etc.
Command blocks are redstone mechanisms and can be activated by An adjacent powered block (for example, an opaque block with an active redstone torch under it).
Command blocks are redstone mechanisms and can be activated by A powered redstone comparator or redstone repeater facing the mechanism component.
Command blocks are redstone mechanisms and can be activated by Powered redstone dust configured to point at the command block (or on top of it) or directionless; a command block is not activated by adjacent powered redstone dust which is configured to point away from it.
In addition, when a command block is cloned by a command to a powered location, the new command block will only execute its command if the original has never been activated (visible in the F3 debug screen as "triggered").
Unlike all other redstone components except the note block, a command block can be activated every game tick (i.e. every 50 milliseconds). However, activating it two game ticks in a row requires that it transition from powered to unpowered and back during the same tick; see Clock circuit#Setblock clock for the technical details one must know to accomplish this.
When activated, a command block will try to execute its command.
When activated, a command block can produce two types of output.
A command block can power a redstone comparator facing away from it (possibly separated by a block) with a signal strength specific to the last executed command (for example, the number of players affected by the command).
The signal strength always reflects the last command executed, even after the command block is deactivated.
The output message describes the success or failure of the executed command, and may be written to multiple destinations.
Previous Output: The output message is always written to the "Previous Output" text pane of the command block GUI.
Chat: The output message is written to the chat text in singleplayer mode, or broadcast to all other ops in multiplayer mode, unless it has been suppressed with /gamerule commandBlockOutput false. Some commands may write additional text to the chat as their normal function which won't be suppressed (for example, the /say command will write a message to the chat of all players), separate from the output message. Chat messages which would usually be prefaced by a player's name (such as from the /me, /say and /tell commands) use @ as the player name. If the command block had been named in an anvil before placement, that name will be used instead.
Logs: The output message is written to multiplayer server logs unless it has been suppressed with /gamerule logAdminCommands false.
Command blocks can post various success results to scoreboard objectives, including SuccessCount: the number of successes (previously also available by redstone comparator output, but not limited to 15).
Command blocks can post various success results to scoreboard objectives, including AffectedBlocks: the number of blocks that were altered.
Command blocks can post various success results to scoreboard objectives, including AffectedEntities: the number of entities that were altered (including players).
Command blocks can post various success results to scoreboard objectives, including AffectedItems: the number of items that were altered.
Command blocks can post various success results to scoreboard objectives, including QueryResult: value returned by command.
The objectives to be used can be specified by running the /stats command or by modifying the command block's NBT data directly with the /blockdata command.
The following commands cannot be used in a command block: /ban, /banlist, /ban-ip, /debug, /deop, /kick, /op, /pardon, /pardon-ip, /publish, /save-all, /save-off, /save-on, /stop, and /whitelist (i.e., /debug, /publish, and all of the multiplayer-only commands except /list).
The following commands are usable but with limited functionality (their output only displays in the command block's Previous Output pane rather than being displayed in the chat): /help, /seed, /list, /scoreboard objectives, /scoreboard players, and /scoreboard teams list.
The following commands use the command block's name (defaults to @) in their output: /me, /say, and /tell.
A command block has an ID name of minecraft:command_block and is further defined by its block data and block entity. A command block also has a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A command block's block data specifies whether the command block is currently activated.
Note: This video is made before 1.7. Since 1.7, you get a command block with '/give <username> minecraft:command_block'. Since 1.8 you can type without 'minecraft:'.
