The cave spider is a neutral mob that can inflict poisoning.
Cave spiders spawn from monster spawners in abandoned mine shafts.
They drop 0-2 string. They also have a ⁄3 chance to drop a spider eye if killed by a player. They drop 5 experience when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Cave spiders inherit most of their behavior from regular spiders They are pacified (made neutral) by bright light (daylight or light levels of 9 or higher). Likewise, subjecting them to darkness will render them hostile.
Cave spiders inherit most of their behavior from regular spiders They can climb walls when needed.
Cave spiders inherit most of their behavior from regular spiders They attack by leaping at the player.
Cave spiders inherit most of their behavior from regular spiders They are not affected by cobwebs or poison.
However, cave spiders will not spawn with beneficial status effects and cannot spawn as spider jockeys, except in Pocket Edition.
When bitten by a cave spider on difficulties higher than easy, the bitten entity is inflicted with Poison I for 7 seconds on normal difficulty and 15 seconds on hard.
The cave spider's texture appears to be at a higher-resolution than its normal counterpart - this is because the textures occupy a smaller space.
Despite being smaller, they have the same size shadow as a normal spider.
If cave spiders are allowed to spawn naturally via hacks, they will only spawn if the light level is 7 or below (like most other hostile mobs).
Picture of cave spider going through a 1×1×0.5 block.
Cave spider in 1.8.
Cave spider and its spawner.
The health bar turns yellow-green when bitten by a cave spider.
Size comparison between a cave spider and a regular spider in a dungeon.
Four cave spider spawners generated in close proximity.
Two cave spider spawners enclosed in an area, able to be safely killed.
Another cave spider farm.
A group of cave spiders trying to swim after the player in a mineshaft.
A cave spider (on the left) and a spider side by side.
Tutorials/Cave spider farming.
Poecilotheria metallica.
