The Ender Dragon is a boss mob that appears in The End.
The ender dragon only spawns in the End. It does not have a spawn egg, and thus can be spawned only through commands or natural generation.
Once killed, the ender dragon will appear to have beams of light spontaneously erupting from its body. It will then explode, dropping enough experience to bring a player from no experience to level 78 (12000 - 10 drops of 1000 experience, one drop of 2000 experience).
It will also spawn an exit portal with a dragon egg on top. This portal appears at Y=64 at the X and Z location where the dragon died.
The ender dragon will destroy any blocks it comes into contact with, except obsidian, end stone, bedrock, command blocks and barriers. Instead of destroying them, the ender dragon passes through them. When hit, an Ender Dragon makes roaring, growling and snarling noises. The flapping of its wings can also be heard as the dragon moves. Unlike endermen, ender dragons don't take damage from water, nor do they teleport.
The ender dragon has a purple health bar that appears at the top of the player's screen. This bar indicates the remaining health of the resident ender dragon. Each End dimension houses a single ender dragon whose health is periodically healed by nearby ender crystals. Destroying an ender crystal while the ender dragon is being healed by it (indicated by a series of circles appearing between the ender crystal and the ender dragon) will cause the ender dragon to take 10 () damage.
The ender dragon flies around, randomly flying at players or arbitrary points above the End island. Specifically, If any non-spectator players are in the End, 50% chance of targeting one player at random.
Specifically, Otherwise, target a random point (at least 10 blocks away from the dragon's current position) in a 120×120×50 cuboid centered on 0,95,0.
It will not target other mobs, but should it hit an enderman, the enderman will turn hostile towards the ender dragon. Blazes, wolves, and zombie pigmen will also turn hostile to the ender dragon. Whenever the dragon finds itself nearer than 10 blocks to is current target or more than 150 blocks away, it will choose a new target. When damaged it will target a point just behind itself, causing it to turn away and choose a new target.
Any living entities hit by the dragon's wings will be thrown through the air, sometimes to fatal heights or off the island. Living entities hit by the dragon's head will take 10 () damage. Neither of these effects is applied for ⁄2 second after the dragon takes damage.
The ender dragon takes ⁄4 normal damage + 1 when hit in any part except the head. Therefore eggs, snowballs, and other attacks that normally deal no damage will deal 1 () damage to the ender dragon when not hitting it in the head.
In the Console Edition, the ender dragon's behavior is slightly different. While flying, the ender dragon fires ender charges, which cannot be deflected, at the player. After flying for approximately 30 seconds, the ender dragon will come down and hover over the unfinished bedrock portal, and remain there for another 30 seconds. The Ender Dragon will spew out "Ender acid", which deals damage, onto nearby players. Players may continually strike it with a weapon at this time. The Ender Dragon also fights endermen during this time, implying the reason for returning to the "nest" is to stop the growing clusters of endermen from stealing the egg.
Also, instead of the portal being spawned underneath the Ender Dragon's death, it is spawned in the middle of the island as soon as you enter the End. However, until the Ender Dragon is defeated, it will remain deactivated, and the Dragon Egg will not be on its podium. Until it has been killed, this is used by the Ender Dragon as a nest, where it will hover over it and attack the player with "Ender acid".
Unlike the PC version, the ender dragon cannot go through bedrock or obsidian. Also, two of the obsidian pillars have iron bars surrounding the crystal. This prevents the player from shooting it from a distance with a bow, ensuring the player has to climb the pillars.
It is also aggravated in Creative mode and still shoots ender charges at the player. The ender dragon is immune to fire, lava, all enchantments except Sharpness or Power, splash potions, Cacti, TNT, and wither skulls, but only take damage from swords and bows, in all editions.
Name tags cannot be put on an ender dragon.
The Xbox avatar item 'Ender Dragon Pet' has the description 'A cuter, friendlier version of his bigger, less playful Minecraft sister.'- revealing that the ender dragon is female.
The ender dragon's hitbox is larger than the ender dragon itself, causing players to be pushed away from it.
If you spawn the Ender dragon in a world and turn the difficulty to peaceful, the dragon will stay and not disappear, but will not be able to hurt the player.
If you kill a spawned Ender dragon in the overworld, it will create a portal to the real End, where there will be a separate Ender dragon.
Ender dragons can push other Ender dragons around.
Ender dragons will attempt to attack players in creative mode, though this has no effect.
When spawned in the overworld using the /summon command, players in creative mode at a certain height force Ender Dragons to flap their wings wildly.
In spectator mode, you cannot view the perspective of the Ender Dragon, unlike any other mob.
The name "ender dragon" was first made known through a tweet by Notch reading "raqreqentba", which could be decoded using the ROT13 cypher, translating to "enderdragon".
On Reddit, Notch referred to the Ender dragon as a she, and suggested her name to be "Jean?" in the same manner he called the Player "Steve?". Dinnerbone later stated that he thinks the name is officially "Jean?".
Notch joked about how Minecraft was "going next gen" when deadmau5 mentioned this.
Before it was textured, Notch reported that he was afraid to texture it as it was a complicated model. In the end, the dragon model was so complex Notch stated that he gave up making the texture manually and wrote a texture packer tool to aid him in adding the texture to the model. Notch also uploaded the code for the tool so others could use the pack.
In terms of how difficult the ender dragon is to defeat, Notch tweeted that his design guideline for the dragon is "[If] I can beat it at all, it's too easy.".
Notch has uploaded a video showing why Ender dragons will not spawn in the main world, as they would destroy any block they come into contact with.
On Reddit, Notch explained why ender dragons destroy matter.
The first screenshot of the Ender dragon.
The same screenshot, only brighter.
The ender dragon flying overhead.
The ender dragon after defeat.
Early graphical glitches in the Ender dragon texture.
A dragon egg and the End portal after the Ender dragon is defeated.
An ender dragon being healed by an ender crystal.
Multiple ender dragons spawning due to a bug.
The ender dragon flying over the End.
The ender dragon attacks a player while being healed.
The ender dragon defeated. (Click image for animation).
A bug that occurs when you load a world with multiple Ender dragons.
Possible glitch in which two dragons have spawned.
A bunch of Ender dragons and withers fighting each other, and the Ender dragons are seeming to be winning the battle.
More ender dragons fighting withers.
Giant 'sitting' on the ender dragon as a result of spawning a customized chicken jockey.
Giant remains seated on a dying Ender dragon.
Giant is still sitting on the Ender dragon as the death animation is about to end.
The ender dragon's death inside netherrack.
The ender dragon dying from the damage taken from an ender crystal the dragon was using being destroyed.
