Snow Golems are utility mobs.
To create a snow golem, the player must vertically, or horizontally, stack two snow blocks on the ground and then place a pumpkin or jack o'lantern on top of them (or at one extremity if stacked horizontally). The pumpkin must be placed last in order for the golem to spawn. They can also be created by dispensing the pumpkin from a dispenser.
Endermen are capable of creating snow golems by placing the necessary blocks, although this is an extremely rare event because they do not do so deliberately.
Snow golems drop up to 15 snowballs upon death.
Snow golems move towards hostile mobs and throw snowballs at them up to 10 blocks away, provoking them. The thrown snowballs do not do any damage, except to blazes. They do not purposely attack aggressive wolves, but they will attack zombie pigmen regardless of whether they attacked the player (but will not aggravate any others in the area). Snow golems do not follow the player.
Snow golems have good path-finding skills, and will not jump off cliffs or into lava. Snow golems "melt" (take fire damage) in deserts, mesas, jungles, savannas, the Nether, and when in contact with rain or water. They do not take fall damage.
As they move, they leave a trail of snow on the ground if the blocks can support it.
Snow golems can be put on leads and tied to fences.
Iron golems can be agitated if the snow golem accidentally hits one or a villager while aiming at another mob. The same applies for wolves.
Snow golems wear their pumpkin as a helmet just like the player does. Their actual snowman-type head is hidden beneath it. If the player occupies the same space as a snow golem, its pumpkin helmet will be seen through, revealing their snowman-style face. The player can also go into spectator mode to see their snowman face.
Snow golems cannot be made by pistons because the code for generating snow golems are found in the pumpkin`s "OnBlockPlace" (when placed by a player) event, and also pumpkins (or jack o'lanterns) will be dropped as an item when pushed by a piston.
Since snow golems take fire damage in hot biomes, a splash potion of fire resistance thrown immediately after the creation of one will make it survive.
First screenshot of a snow golem, released by Notch in September 21, 2011.
A snow golem.
Three snow golems that were built by endermen.
The view from inside a snow golem, proving that the original head still is in the game.
In a zombie pigman trap, a snow golem teams up with several iron golems to kill the zombie pigmen, giving the player gold.
A snow golem riding in a minecart.
