A Villager (previously called a Testificate) is an intelligent passive NPC that the player can trade with.
Villagers will not despawn even if the player wanders away from them.
Villagers naturally spawn in villages inside various buildings.
Villagers can breed, spawning baby villagers. After exactly 20 minutes, the baby villager will grow up to an adult. See this section for more information.
Villagers will spawn if a player uses a splash potion of weakness on a zombie villager and then feeds it a regular golden apple. It will then shake and turn into a villager within 5 minutes. During the change the zombie villager turning villager can still burn in the sun.
Villagers have no drops.
Upon spawning, villagers will leave their homes and begin to explore the village. Generally, they wander aimlessly inside the village during the day. They may go indoors or outdoors. Occasionally, two villagers may stop, and turn to look at each other, in a behavior called socializing, in which they will stare at a mob (sometimes even a zombie) or another villager for a few seconds at a time. In the case of players, they will continuously stare at them as long as the player is close enough, unless the villager tries to get into a house at night or run away from a zombie. When a player attacks a villager, the villager will not run away, but angry particles will fly out from the villager if it is in a village.
Villagers will not willingly fall off high cliffs that would kill them, but may occasionally take fall damage. They will not stay away from fire or cacti, nor change their behavior around them, as with most mobs.
At night, or during a storm, villagers will run inside, closing doors behind them, staying indoors until the morning. In the morning, the villagers will head outside, fleeing from any remaining zombies. Once the zombies are gone, the villagers will resume normal behavior.
There is evidence that villagers are prone to overcrowding certain areas of a village while leaving other areas completely empty. There is speculation that villagers will crowd predictably into set areas; however, exactly which areas has still not been discovered. It has been noticed they crowd their church/watchtower very often at certain times of the day. The overcrowding can lead to villagers swarming into a few houses at night rather than spreading themselves. The sheer amount of villagers trying to enter such a small area can result in a portion of the villagers taking more time to enter the safety of their homes. In extreme cases, some villagers will become stranded outside. There is no known way to prevent this type of overcrowding.
Villagers have eight inventory slots. Villagers will not intentionally seek out items to pick up, but they will collect any bread, carrots, potatoes, wheat, or seeds they happen to come within range of. These are the only items they are able to pick up. If a player and a villager are in the pickup range of an item at the same time, the player will always pick it up first.
If a villager has enough food in one inventory stack (6 bread or 24 carrots or potatoes, or 18 wheat for Farmers only) and sees a villager without enough food in one inventory stack (3 bread or 12 carrots or potatoes for non-Farmers; 15 bread, 60 carrots or potatoes, or 45 wheat for Farmers), he may decide to share food with that villager.
To share, a villager finds his first inventory stack with at least 4 bread, carrots, or potatoes or with at least 6 wheat, and then throws half the stack (rounded down) in the direction of the target villager. When wheat is shared, it is first crafted to bread which may result in 1 or 2 less than half the stack being shared.
Adult and baby brown-robed villagers, both farmers and other careers, will tend crops within the village boundary. Villagers far enough outside the boundary of any village will also tend nearby crops.
Farmland to be tended is found by seeking for certain blocks up to 15 blocks away from the villager in X and Z and up to 1 away in Y (a 31×31×3 area total). If a brown-robed villager does not have enough food in one stack in his inventory (15 bread, 60 carrots or potatoes, or 45 wheat) and finds fully-grown wheat, carrots, or potatoes, he will move to the crop block and break it.
 If a brown-robed villager has any seeds, carrots, or potatoes in his inventory and finds an air block above farmland, he will move to it and plant a crop. They will always plant from the first eligible slot in their inventory.
Baby villagers will sprint around, entering and leaving houses at will. They will also chase each other around the village to simulate that they are playing tag. They will sometimes stop sprinting to stare at an Iron Golem. If the Iron Golem is holding a poppy, the children will cautiously take the flower from its hands.
Unlike other breed-able mobs, the parents and child have no personal interactions other than socializing.
Zombies will find villagers from up to 42 block radius (even when the villager is invisible), and will attempt to break down doors. Zombies will only successfully break doors if the difficulty is set to hard; although, only a fraction of zombies spawned in hard mode can break doors. This also applies to zombie pigmen if they path find through a door. Villagers will run away from zombies, which attempt to attack villagers. The villager's only "natural" defense are the Iron Golems, which protect villagers from nearby mobs.
Zombies will kill villagers, or convert them to zombie villagers. The chance that the villager will become a zombie villager on death is 0% on Easy, 50% on Normal, and 100% on Hard. Baby villagers can be infected by zombies as well.
Villagers will also run from zombie pigmen.
When lightning strikes between 3-4 blocks of a villager, it will turn into a witch.
Villagers will mate depending on the number of valid doors. Villagers will then mate until the number of adult villagers equals or is more than 35% of the number of doors. Any remaining children will grow up as usual, resulting in a total number of adult villagers somewhere above one third of the number of nearby wooden doors. The type of villager that the child is doesn't depend on what type the parents are.
A valid door is any door within the village radius where the number of "outside" spaces within 5 blocks in a straight line on one side of the door is not the same as the number of "outside" spaces within 5 blocks on the other side of the door. A space is considered to be "outside" if it has nothing but transparent blocks above it all the way to the sky.
The game engine periodically takes a census to determine the current population of the village. All villagers within the horizontal boundary of the village and within 5 vertical blocks of the center will be counted as part of the population to determine if continued villager mating is allowed. However, any villager within the horizontal boundary of the village and within a vertical distance of 32 blocks downwards of the center of the village will attempt to enter mating mode as long as there is at least one villager within the boundary. If two villagers simultaneously enter mating mode while they are close to one another, they will mate with each other and produce a child.
Additionally, villagers must be "willing" in order to breed. After mating, they will no longer be willing, and must be made willing again.
Villagers may become willing when the player trades with them. Willingness is granted the first time a new offer is traded, or at a one-in-five chance on subsequent trades. Green particles will appear if the villager becomes willing by trading. This will not cause them to immediately seek out a mate, however.
Villagers can also become willing by having either 3 bread, 12 carrots or 12 potatoes in one stack in their inventory. Any villager with an excess of food (usually farmers) will throw food to other villagers, allowing them to pick it up and obtain enough food to become willing. You can also throw bread, carrots, or potatoes at the villagers yourself to encourage breeding. Villagers will consume the required food upon becoming willing.
Each villager has a profession, which can be identified by their clothing. Villagers also have careers specific to their profession. The player can identify a villager's career by reading the title at the top of the trading interface. Below is a table listing the various villagers, with their careers in relation to their professions, as well as the IDs specifying these.
Farmer Villager.
Librarian Villager.
Priest Villager.
Blacksmith Villager.
Butcher Villager.
Zombie Villager (hostile).
The trading system is a gameplay mechanic that allows players to trade emeralds for items and vice-versa with villagers.Their trades can be good or bad, depending on what the cost is and what items you might get. Trading is only available for adult villagers; the player cannot trade with baby villagers.
Right-clicking a villager will allow a player to trade with them, and display their career. Villagers will make offers based on their profession and career, and will only make trades based on whatever offers they are making. Different offers may be viewed by pressing the left and right buttons next to the currently displayed offer. Most offers involve emerald as a currency, and some item pertinent to the villager's profession and career. Trading allows the acquisition of uncommon items that would otherwise be fairly difficult to obtain, such as chain armor. It is also the only legitimate method of acquiring a Bottle o' Enchanting in survival mode. When villagers get a new trade, purple particles and green cross particles appear.
After trading a new offer once, the villager will open a new tier of trades after a short period of time. After 2-12 times an offer is used, the villager will lock the trade offer. When this happens, you will have to use another new trade offer in the villager's window once (or several times if it is already used once), and then wait for a short time. If green particles appear, all trades reopen. There is a maximum number of tiers each villager can possess, varying by career. Once the villager has unlocked all tiers, it will not open any new ones. However, you will still be able to renew all offers by trading.
When a villager gives off particles from a new trade, they get 10 seconds of regeneration, which gives them 8 ().
In Pocket Edition, trading is currently not available.
The villagers were inspired by the shop keepers in Dungeon Master 2.
Notch has agreed that villagers look like "cavemen squidwards".
Originally, the mobs populating villages were to be pigmen.
Using the command /gamerule mobGriefing false will prevent farmer Villagers from harvesting and replanting crops.
Baby farmer villagers can harvest and replant crops as well as adult farmers.
You can use a name tag on an adult villager directly upon exiting a Nether portal, any other time will cause the trading interface to open and leave the villager unnamed.
Villagers can see invisible players.
In the Pocket Edition of the game, villagers can leave villages. However, once they leave the village, they rarely come back.
After a zombie villager is cured, the villager gets Nausea for 10 seconds (indicated by the purple status effect particles).
When a villager is in love mode, it walks very slowly. However, when a villager runs indoors as the night falls, it runs extremely fast, even faster than the player's walking speed.
On April 1st 2014, Mojang announced that villagers have taken over the skin servers and content delivery networks (CDN) as an April Fools joke. This caused players' current skin to turn into villager skins. This also caused users to be unable to change their skins. Different career villager skins were used, including the unused generic villager (green robe).
Many of the sounds were also changed, supposedly by the villagers. They seem to be similar to a villager talking (with words, rather than their normal sounds). The in-game music has also been altered to include villager like noises, and also features a villager version of the "Game of Thrones" theme on the title screen. The sounds originate from the sound resource pack created by Element Animation, titled The Element Animation Villager Sound Resource Pack (T.E.A.V.S.R.P), which is based on the villagers appearing in their fan videos. The villagers were voiced by Dan Lloyd, Director of Element Animation.
Villager in Beta 1.9-pre1, when villagers had the word "TESTIFICATE" displayed over the head.
A group of villager children socializing together.
The unused Generic Villager in-game.
The 13w22a Banner.
A house full of villagers.
Villagers can still see invisible players.
A priest villager giving bread to a librarian.
A baby zombie villager getting cured.
A baby villager cured from being a zombie.
