 Building circles in a square world like Minecraft can be a real pain. However, depending on the scale you’re building, creating near perfect circles is possible.
You will of course always have rough edges which can look a bit odd from up close, but by following just a few easy steps you’ll be able to build circular structures in no time.
To begin creating our circle, we first need a template. The template of your circle can be created almost any picture editing software, like paint. These editing programs will usually allow you to create symmetrical circles, which are, of course, all made out of pixels. Those pixels are what we’re after.
In this example we’ll use paint, as it’s a standard program on windows. Mac users usually won’t have such a program, but you can download a program called Paintbrush for free. Another great, free program is called Gimp. Which is a lot more powerful than both paint and Paintbrush and available for both Pc and Mac.
When you open paint, simply click the circle tool and click and drag on your canvas to create a circle. Make sure you hold shift while clicking and dragging, as this will make sure the circle is perfectly symmetrical.
If you’re looking for a circle of a specific size, the size of the circle you’re drawing is displayed in the bottom right corner, marked with a red rectangle in the image above. Note that this size is 1 pixel bigger than the actual circle, so if it says 23×23 it means your circle will be 22×22.
Once you’ve created your circle, simply zoom in. You’ll be able to see every pixel now, which can then be translated to Minecraft be replacing each pixel with a block. This is all there is to creating circles, it can’t get any easier than that.
You can use this to create both horizontal and vertical circle, like an archway. However, you sometimes may need a less rounded circle for your arch or other structure. This can be done in paint as well, by simply creating an oval shape with the circle tool and recreating the shape in minecraft.
I’ve added an image which covers all circles from 5×5 to 25×25, but you may have noticed some circles look a bit weird. These are usually the circles with an even size, like 10×10 and 12×12. This means it’s usually recommended to only create circles with an odd size. This also means the middle of the circle will be exactly 1 pixel/block, instead of a 2×2 square.
