Gold is a fairly rare ore found in Minecraft. When mined with an Iron Pickaxe or better it drops one gold ore. It serves little use as a tool because of its very low durability, which is often overlooked by players. Gold ore is found deeper than more ores in the game, below layer 30.
Gold has some uses for crafting items. Gold is used to make gold ingots in furnaces to craft items such as gold pickaxes. The durability of gold tools is very poor, but it is the fastest tool in terms of breaking blocks than other types. Gold ingots can be used for crafting clocks, which allow players to find out the time above when they are in their mines or shelters. Gold ingots can be used to make Golden Apples that heal two hunger and has a Regeneration effect. It also can be used to craft Powered Rails and gold blocks. Gold tools have similar strength and durability to their wood counterparts, but mines any material faster than other tools. Gold armor has similar strength and durability to leather armor. Thus, gold is usually only worn/used for leisure and fashion. Other uses of gold include decorative purposes, catchy or insanely expensive structures that usually look pretty nice. Gold tools and armor has 33 uses, but are extremely fast at work.
Gold ingots can also be crafted into some Gold Nugget, which can be crafted back into a gold ingot using nine.
Gold is one of the rarest ores- slightly more common than diamond- and makes the fastest tools, but has the least number of uses. A very popular thing to do with it is use it as a lava bath or a base layer for some monster traps. Gold ore is smelted to make golden ingots. Nine gold ingots are used for gold blocks, which are used as gold storage or building.
In Survival Test, gold ore gave 1 Gold Block without having to smelt anything.
9 gold nuggets can be crafted into a gold ingot, and 9 gold ingots can be crafted into a gold block.
Gold seems to be less important of an ore in the Xbox 360 edition due to the fact that its durability behaves like Leather Armor, and the tools behave like a slightly stronger version of Stone Tools and Weapons, making it the most useless ore in the entire game.
A lot of people say that gold is their least favourite material. Some people say wooden tools are better, even though it takes an Iron Pickaxe to mine.
A gold pickaxe can harvest anything you can harvest with a wooden pickaxe.
Gold ore found with coal and iron ore.
Golden Ore on the surface.
Gold ore in pocket edition.
Add a photo to this gallery.
