Leaves are a type of block that are abundant in normally generated maps, appearing on every tree, and can be collected if the Player uses Shears on them. Leaves are available for use in both Creative and Survival mode. All tree types have different leaves. Leaves can be broken much easier with a of sword, but doing this will wear it down much faster than normal. .
Leaf blocks are very weak, can only be collected with shears, and can be easily destroyed by hitting them with any tool. Leaves are extremely vulnerable to explosions and are highly flammable. As of Beta 1.2, leaves in snowy areas have a different texture. It is possible, but extremely unlikely for a leaf block to stay on Fire forever after catching on fire.
Destroying leaves yield Saplings 6.25% (1/16) of the time which can be planted by the player in order to grow new trees. Destroying Oak Leaves can also yield Apples 0.5% (1/200) of the time which can be eaten by the player to gain hunger points.
As of Beta 1.7 leaves can be collected using Shears. Using Shears collects the leaves with a single hit (unless you are underwater, which will make them almost instant to harvest using shears). However, leaves will despawn after a while if not by a wood log.
Before Beta 1.7, leaves could not be harvested without mods, and since Beta 1.8, player or Enderman-placed leaf blocks will persist over time without decaying.
Before 1.6, the above made it possible to place Torches and Ladders on leaves on "Fast" graphics and switch back to "Fancy" graphics without making them come off.
Similarly, in "Fast" graphics, getting stuck inside leaves (usually by using Bonemeal) will suffocate the player, while on "Fancy" graphics leaves will not.
In creative mode, if looking in your inventory, all four leaf types are available.
As of Minecraft Pocket Edition, a player can obtain leaves with no shears in Creative or Survival.
In Pocket Edition, versions 0.3.0, leaf blocks, harvested by shears, were designed to use the Crafting table as a placeholder apart from the top are the sides. This was fixed in 0.4.0.
Leaves are blocks which grow as part of trees.
Leaves can only be obtained with shears or Silk Touch enchanted tools.
Leaves from trees spontaneously decay (disappear) when they receive a block tick, if they are not connected to any wood block, either directly or via other leaf block, with a maximum distance of 4 blocks. Player-placed leaf blocks will never decay.
Leaves which decay or are destroyed without using shears usually drop nothing, but yield saplings 5% (1/20) of the time. Jungle leaves drop saplings 2.5% (1/40) of the time. Oak leaves also have a 0.5% (1/200) chance of dropping an apple. Rates are increased by the Fortune enchantment. Leaves that are burned do not yield saplings or apples.
Leaves take on a different shade of green depending on the biome in which they are placed.
Leaves are always transparent to light but cannot be seen through when the graphics mode is set to "Fast"; the transparent regions are instead black. They diffuse sky light, causing the shadows they cast under trees.
When leaves are pushed by a piston, they are destroyed without dropping an item.
Leaves use two different block IDs. They use minecraft:leaves (block 18) for oak, spruce, birch and jungle; and they use minecraft:leaves2 (block 161) for dark oak and acacia. Leaves use block data values to determine their type and state. They also have block states which will replace data values in the future.
Block 18.
Block 161.
Block 18 (minecraft:leaves).
Block 161 (minecraft:leaves2).
In Alpha, leaves would decay using an algorithm that checks whether it has a solid or leaf block underneath it or is adjacent to a solid block. If it doesn't, it must be connected to a leaf block that is also supported as long as it is no further than five blocks away from said support. Alpha-style decay.
 The extent a single "branch" of leaves can survive.
 Leaves can be connected an infinite distance away from a support block.
Occasionally, leaves will grow through other blocks, acting as though they are still connected to the tree. They may also completely replace blocks they try to grow into.
Leaves do not prevent chests from being opened.
Some trees seem to occasionally drop apples or saplings without being destroyed due to creation of leaf blocks not supported by wood.
The default texture for jungle leaves have a yellowish tint in some areas.
A red mushroom is seen growing on the top of a block of leaves.
