 Pumpkins are blocks that appear on grass in a similar manner to mushrooms but does not spread. They are found most commonly in Mountain and Plain Biomes, but can also appear in sandy and snow covered areas, albeit rarely. They can appear in Swamp biomes as of Update 1.8. They are usually found in groups but can sometimes be found as one single pumpkin. Natural pumpkins are rarer than diamond ore, most commonly found in mountain and hill biomes. They look like Jack-O-Lanterns.
Harvested pumpkins can be equipped as a helmet without any actual armor value. It is unique in that it limits the player's view of the world as if it were seen from inside the pumpkin. The pumpkin helmet can be removed and placed into the player's inventory. Although it has no armor value, it can be a serious help during nighttime expeditions: When worn as a helmet, the player may look directly at endermen with no worry as to whether the Enderman will attack the player.
Pumpkins can be use to make jack-o-lantern, a decorative item that lights an area up and can be placed underwater.
As of the 1.9 pre-release, a snow golem can be crafted by vertically stacking two snow block on the ground, then placing a pumpkin on top of it. Snow Golems throw snowball at hostile mobs.
It is rarely possible for pumpkins to be found in strongholds, dungeons, and abandoned mine shafts.
One pumpkin can be crafted to make four pumpkin seeds.
Iron golems are made with Pumpkins and iron block, by 2 iron blocks up 1 on both sides and 1 pumpkin on top.
A player can create pumpkin pie using a pumpkin, sugar and an egg. The pie restores  when eaten.
Pumpkin has Data values up to 4.
0: Facing south.
1: Facing west.
2: Facing north.
3: Facing east.
4: Faceless.
The pumpkins already have faces carved into them when they grow.
When worn in the Xbox 360 version it has no real use other than aesthetic purposes.
Pumpkins cannot be placed when there is an air block below it. .
When a Pumpkin is pushed from a piston from below, it will break and you can collect it.
Pumpkins cannot be pulled back by Sticky Pistons.
When you wear a pumpkin in The End, the Endermen will not bother you. However, the disadvantage is that it limits your field of vision, which can increase the danger of the dragon successfully attacking you.
A player wearing a pumpkin.
A group of pumpkins spawned naturally.
Inside view of a pumpkin.
Close up of player wearing pumpkin.
Pumpkin Seeds.
Pumpkin Pie.
Add a photo to this gallery.
Pumpkins are blocks that appear on grass, spawned in random clusters in most Overworld biomes, though somewhat rarely.
Pumpkins can be mined with any tool, but axes are the quickest.
When a pumpkin is pushed by a piston, it breaks and drops as an item.
Pumpkins may generate naturally in most biomes in the Overworld.
Pumpkin farming strategies parallel those of melons. Planted pumpkin seeds grow a central stem that, after maturing, spawns pumpkins randomly in adjacent vacant dirt/grass/farmland. If a pumpkin is harvested without also cutting the central stalk, another pumpkin will spawn afterwards without requiring replanting or waiting for the stalk to mature again.
Pumpkin stems take around 10 to 30 minutes to fully develop. Bone Meal can be used on pumpkin stems to become fully-grown, but will not produce a pumpkin immediately.
If a mob wearing a pumpkin is killed using a tool enchanted with Looting, there will be a chance equivalent to the level of Looting used to drop the pumpkin, up to a maximum of a 3% chance of a drop.
A pumpkin can be equipped as a helmet without any actual armor value, but will instead function as a mask that allows the player to look at Endermen without provoking an attack. When worn, they limit the player's viewing area to a mask pattern that resembles the pumpkin's carved face.
Pumpkins can be used to make Snow Golems and Iron Golems as shown below. Snow Golems require snow blocks for their bodies, while Iron Golems require iron blocks. The pumpkin must be placed last or the Golem will not spawn.
Pumpkins cannot be placed without a block under them, but once placed, will remain even if the block underneath is mined away. When placed, pumpkins automatically face the player. Pumpkins cannot be placed on a transparent block.
Farmers will buy 8-13 pumpkins for an emerald.
The pumpkin is the only headgear that obstructs the player's view.
A group of pumpkins.
A player wearing a pumpkin as a head.
View of the world inside a pumpkin helmet.
A screenshot of a pumpkin on a stem in Beta 1.8 pre-release.
Looking at an Enderman with a Pumpkin helmet on. Notice that its back is turned and is not attacking the player.
A floating pumpkin due to ponds being generated after the rest of the terrain.
A skeleton and a zombie wearing a pumpkin and a Jack o'Lantern respectively on the date of Halloween.
Naturally occurring pumpkin.
A glitch of a baby Zombie trying to wear a pumpkin on its head, but instead the pumpkin is floating above its head.
