 Stairs are blocks that allow the player to change elevation without jumping, similar to Slabs. They allow for easier movement over areas that the player would normally have to climb. Stairs can "merge" with other stairs when they meet at right angles, to create a smooth transition. This can be useful for making a roof, floor recess, etc. Stairs will naturally occur in NPC Villages and in Nether Fortresses.
Stairs can be crafted from six Wooden Planks , six Cobblestone Blocks, six Bricks , six Stone Bricks, six Sandstone Bricks, six Nether Bricks, or six Nether Quartz Blocks producing four stairs per craft. Upon destroying the block after placement, it will yield only one of the material used to craft it.
Brick Stairs, Stone Brick Stairs, and Nether Brick Stairs were added in the Adventure Update.
Previously, Wooden Stairs would not burn, but as of Beta 1.6, Wooden Stairs and Fences have become flammable.
Placing 6 Mossy Stone Brick or 6 Cracked Stone Brick in a crafting box will only make Stone Brick Stairs not Mossy/Cracked Stone Brick Stairs.
As of version 1.2, stairs can be placed upside-down, to form an arch-like stair design.
As of Snapshot 12w21b sandstone stairs have a crafting recipe.
The 1.8.2 update for the XBox 360 edition added Stone Brick and Brick stairs.
In 1.4.2 online, stairs can now join and create corners.
Stairs are 1 of the 2 blocks that you can stand on by just walking.
Stairs are a block that allows mobs and players to change elevation without jumping.
Stairs can be crafted, or can be found in villages, strongholds, and nether fortresses.
Wood stairs drops themselves as items when broken with any tool, or with no tool, but an axe is fastest. Non-wood stairs drop themselves as items only if broken with a pickaxe.
Wood stairs must be crafted entirely from one type and color of wood, and they retain the style of that wood's type and color.
Oak wood and cobblestone stairs generate naturally in plains villages, and sandstone stairs generate naturally in desert villages.
Cobblestone stairs also generate naturally in strongholds.
Nether brick stairs generate naturally in Nether fortresses.
Spruce wood stairs generate naturally in Witch huts.
To place stairs, use a stairs item while pointing at a surface facing the space the stairs should occupy. Stairs will place with the half-block side closest to the player.
Stairs can be placed either right side up or upside-down Pointing at a block top or the bottom half of a block side will place the stairs right side up.
Stairs can be placed either right side up or upside-down Pointing at a block bottom or the top half of a block side will place the stairs upside-down.
Stairs will change their shape to join with adjacent stairs (of any material) When a stairs' half-block side is adjacent to the side of another stairs, the stairs' full-block side will wrap into an "L" shape to join the other stairs (it creates an "inner corner").
Stairs will change their shape to join with adjacent stairs (of any material) When a stairs' full-block side is adjacent to the side of another stairs, the stairs' full-block side will shorten to join only the other stairs' full-block side (it creates an "outer corner").
Right side up stairs won't join with upside-down stairs and vice versa.
Walking up stairs is faster and takes less of a toll on a player's hunger bar than jumping up.
Stairs are defined by their ID and block data. Stairs also have a block state which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A stairs' ID specifies its material.
A stairs' block data specifies its facing and whether it is upside-down.
On the Xbox 360 edition, grass won't revert to dirt on stone or oak wood stairs, but grass can't grow on it either.
Naturally occurring cobblestone stairs in villages.
Naturally occurring Nether brick stairs in Nether fortresses.
First image of upside-down stairs released by Jeb.
