A Chicken Jockey is a very rare hostile mob, which is a Baby Zombie riding a Chicken. The chicken uses the zombie's A.I. instead of being passive and goes just as fast as the Baby Zombie. However, if you kill the Baby Zombie, the chicken will become passive. They are very similar to the Spider Jockey. The chances of finding one are around 1%. There is also a Pigman Jockey (Baby-Pigman riding a Chicken) and a Villager Jockey (Baby-Villager zombie riding a Chicken).
Should you ever encounter a Chicken Jockey in Survival, it's best to try to engage it in close combat. Their high speed and small hitbox make long-range projectiles like arrows somewhat ineffective. The more effective, and more expensive, alternative is to get in close and throw Splash Potions of Healing at your feet. This will heal you, defeat the zombie, and spare the chicken. [This is inadvisable for Spider Jockeys, because the Spider will still kill you. But in this case, it's only a chicken.].
Chicken Jockeys drop 0-2 rotten flesh, and can rarely drop iron ingots, potatoes, and carrots, on the Baby Zombie's part. They can also drop 0-2 feathers and 1 raw chicken (1 cooked chicken if killed while on fire), on the Chicken's part. Since Baby Zombies have a 5% chance of mounting a nearby Chicken, the Chicken Jockey can also drop the weapons or armor the Baby Zombie had before riding the Chicken. Additionally, if killed by a Charged Creeper, they drop a Zombie Head.
 Chicken Jockeys can be summoned through the command /summon Zombie ~ ~1 ~ {IsBaby:1,Riding:{id:Chicken}} while Pigman Jockeys can be summoned through the command /summon PigZombie ~ ~1 ~ {IsBaby:1,Riding:{id:Chicken}}.
 The Pigman Jockey is the only jockey who is completely neutral.
 It is the only jockey with three different variant types: Baby Zombie, Baby Villager Zombie, and Baby Zombie Pigman.
 The Wither can harm the Baby Zombie while attacking the Chicken, despite the Baby Zombie being an undead mob.  This is due to the Chicken still being a passive mob.
