A trapdoor is a non-solid block that can be used as an openable barrier.
Wooden trapdoors can be mined with anything, but an axe is fastest. Iron trapdoors require a pickaxe to mine. Iron trapdoors are not available in the Console Edition.
Wooden trapdoors can be opened and closed by players. Iron trapdoors can only be opened with redstone power.
Trapdoors must be "attached" to a block to the side of them. To place a trapdoor, use a trapdoor item while pointing at the block it should be attached to.
When placed, a trapdoor will either occupy the top or bottom part of a block, depending on where the player placed the trapdoor. If a trapdoor is placed on the top part of a block, it will open downwards. If placed on the bottom part of a block, it will open upwards.
A trapdoor's "hinge" will be on the block it was attached to.
Trapdoors can be moved by pistons but will drop as items if there is no valid attachment block at their new position. Water and lava will flow around trapdoors. Lava can create fire in air blocks next to wooden trapdoors as if they were flammable, but the trapdoors will not burn up (and can't be burned by other methods either).
Mobs pathfinding considers trapdoors to always be closed, whether they are open or not. This often result in mobs falling through open trapdoors.
A trapdoor can be used as a switchable barrier to entity movement. Although primarily used to block movement by mobs and players, a trapdoor can also be used to control the movement of boats (for example, a top trapdoor placed in a two-wide water flow will stop a boat when closed (extended out into the water flow), but allow it to move again when open), items and minecarts (a trapdoor can stop a falling item or minecart, then allow it to drop again when the trapdoor opens), etc.
Trapdoors are 0.1875 (⁄16) blocks thick. The rest of a trapdoor's space can be moved through freely and provides a breathable space if placed underwater.
To open or close a wooden trapdoor, use the Use Item/Place Block control. When a trapdoor opens or closes, it immediately changes its orientation without affecting anything in the space it "passes through". Moving trapdoors don't push entities the way that pistons do.
Iron trapdoors can only be opened with redstone power (a button, a redstone circuit, etc.).
The sound of opening and closing of a trapdoor can be heard up to 16 blocks away, like most mob sounds.
Both wood and iron trapdoors can be controlled with redstone power.
A trapdoor is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent active power component, including above or below: for example, a redstone torch, a block of redstone, a daylight sensor, etc.
A trapdoor is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by an adjacent powered block (for example, a block with an active redstone torch under it), including above or below.
A trapdoor is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by a powered redstone comparator or redstone repeater facing the trapdoor.
A trapdoor is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by powered redstone dust configured to point at the trapdoor or a directionless "dot" next to it; a trapdoor is not activated by adjacent powered redstone dust which is configured to point in another direction.
When activated, a trapdoor will immediately "rotate" around its hinge side to its open state. When deactivated, a trapdoor immediately returns to its closed state.
An activated wood trapdoor can still be closed by a player, and won't re-open until it receives a new activation signal (if a trapdoor has been closed "by hand", it still needs to be deactivated and then reactivated to open by redstone).
A trapdoor is defined by its ID and block data. A trapdoor also has a block state, which is expected to replace the functionality of block data in a future version.
A trapdoor's ID specifies its material.
A trapdoor's block data specifies its orientation, positioning, and activation status.
An example of an open trapdoor, shown with its back to a block.
An example of a closed trapdoor, shown flat against the adjacent block.
Trapdoors on slabs.
Iron trapdoors.
Both trapdoor types.
