Dec value: 87.
Hex value: 57.
Minimum tool requirement to break: Wooden pickaxe.
Blast resistance: 2.
Maximum stack 64.
Transparency: No.
Netherrack makes up most of the Nether and is quite fragile. It only requires a wooden pickaxe to mine and is mined very fast. A diamond pickaxe will mine it almost instantly, but so will stone and iron pickaxes, which are recommended over diamond pickaxes to avoid wasting all its durability.
Netherrack has the unique ability to stay on fire forever, even when it rains. Hitting it and pouring water over it will put the fire out, as well as placing other blocks on top of it. The fire will spread to other flammable blocks, but not onto other netherrack blocks.
Netherrack is extremely vulnarable to explosions, which makes the Nether quite dangerous. A ghast’s fireball will destroy part of the netherrack and set some of it on fire.
Netherrack is most commonly used as part of a fireplace and as part of traps. A fireplace is quite easy to make, however, fire will spread to any block next to it, includind diagonally, as well as blocks below it and up to 4 blocks above it. Keep this in mind when designing anything with fire.
Fire traps are pretty straight forward. Place a netherrack block anywhere outside and set it on fire, make sure it’s on the same level as the ground. Passive mobs will to come towards the light at night and set themselves on fire and die. They will still drop their items, though mobs who drop specialized items, like spider eggs from a spider, will not drop them.
Burning Netherrack makes a great defence line around your house or village, but be careful when you walk close, skeletons can still shoot you from behind the fire and other monsters might simply walk through to get to you. If you’re close enough they’ll most likely live long enough to hurt or kill you. Burning netherrack is often used to create burning buildings, ruins and other disaster scenarios. But again, make sure you take care not to let the fire spread. The smoke particles of fire go though solid blocks, this can be used to create dramatic effects or as small smoke clouds coming out of chimneys.
